# Cleveland Heart disease dataset

The goal of this project was to train five different classifiers to determine the presence or absence of heart disease based on fourteen different attributes. The five different classifiers which were trained and tested were: random forest, decision tree, gradient boost, ada boost, and k neighbours classifier.

The data used was taken from the Cleveland database wherein 303 patients were described using 14 attributes. The fourteenth attribute is the presence or absence of heart disease. We slightly edited this data in two ways before inputting it to our program. First, we added column names to each attribute. Second, we removed the six rows where data was missing. We then had our program perform pre-processing on the data before classification. Namely, one-hot encoding was done on the columns “restecg”, “thal”, “slope”, and “cp”. With one-hot encoding, each possible type of the attribute is represented with a binary array rather than an integer. The length of the array is the number of possible types. A 1 will be in the position in the array that represents that type with a 0 in all other positions. This is done to emphasize that no ordinal relationship exists between the attribute types. For example with attribute “cp” (chest pain), there are four types: 1 = typical angina, 2 = atypical angina, 3 = non-anginal pain, 4 = asymptomatic. There is no intuitive reason for the number ordering of the types, and we want to emphasize to the program that it is completely categorical.
